<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Ethics and Privacy</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="ethics-and-privacy">
<h1>Ethics and Privacy</h1>
<p>UAS enable individuals to remotely access spaces and vantage points that may, for many reasons, be otherwise out of reach. Avoid actions in the air that you yourself would not engage in on the ground.</p>
<p>Consider referring to the <a class="reference external" href="http://www.spj.org/ethicscode.asp">SPJ Code of Ethics</a><span class="link-target"> [http://www.spj.org/ethicscode.asp]</span>, especially the principles about minimizing harm, such as the ones seen below, which are relevant to UAS operations:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>“Balance the public’s need for information against potential harm or discomfort. Pursuit of the news is not a license for arrogance or undue intrusiveness.” While Part 107 prohibits flights over people it doesn’t stop you from flying near them laterally. Be mindful of bystanders and consider their perceptions of drones, and what you’re doing in the air with a UAS. Remember: They don’t know what you are going to do with a device that makes many uncomfortable. Don’t deliberately fly over private property if publicly accessible views are available. Don’t use a drone to antagonize.</p></li>
<li><p>“Show compassion for those who may be affected by news coverage. Realize that private people have a greater right to control information about themselves than public figures and others who seek power, influence or attention. Weigh the consequences of publishing or broadcasting personal information. Avoid pandering to lurid curiosity, even if others do.”</p></li>
</ul>
<p>In short, respect people’s privacy, and don’t use a UAS as a tool for intrusion. Don’t fly up to people’s windows, and seek permission to fly over private property where practical. While there has been extensive speculation about how high above the ground private property extends, there is currently no clear legal precedent indicating where private property ends and public airspace, in the context of drones, begins. Until a legal standard is set, all due caution should be exercised.</p>
<p>Also, consider referring to the <a class="reference external" href="https://nppa.org/code_of_ethics">National Press Photographers Association Code of Ethics</a><span class="link-target"> [https://nppa.org/code_of_ethics]</span>, including the following standards:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>“Do not intentionally sabotage the efforts of other journalists.” When covering a news event along with other media organizations flying UASs, avoid using your UAS to obstruct or take down another UAS. Doing so could not only hurt bystanders and damage property, but also require a report to the FAA, jeopardizing your Part 107 certification. Media using UAS should coordinate with each other, just as manned helicopter pilots have done since the 1950s.</p></li>
<li><p>“While photographing subjects do not intentionally contribute to, alter, or seek to alter or influence events.” UAS systems, especially multirotors, are loud. Consider how the noise generated by your UAS, and its presence, influences events, people, and animals.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>