<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Part 48</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="part-48">
<h1>Part 48</h1>
<p>A substantial portion of the test will be over Part 107. But within Part 107 are links to other parts of the Federal Aviation Regulations that you’ll have to know.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>One way to frame your reading, and one way you can interpret the questions the FAA will ask is like this: Who is responsible? What are they responsible for? How do they comply?</p>
</div>
<p>What follows is a short summary of the major parts of Part 48. You should read both regulations and refer to this summary for understanding.</p>
<p>Before you fly your drone, you have to register it. In late 2015, the FAA added Part 48 to the Federal Aviation Regulations requiring registration of drones. Registration is online and costs $5.</p>
<div class="section" id="subpart-a">
<h2>Subpart A</h2>
<p><strong>48.15 Requirement to register</strong>: The important notes here are that if your drone weighs more than .55 pounds, you have to register it.</p>
<p><strong>48.20 Eligibility for registration</strong>: Citizens, foreigners admitted for permanent residence in the US, corporations doing business in the US and governments must register.</p>
<p><strong>48.25 Applicants</strong>: Drones must be registered to its owner, unless the owner is less than 13 years old.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="subpart-b">
<h2>Subpart B</h2>
<p><strong>48.100 Application</strong>: For purposes of Part 107 – i.e. non-hobby operations – you must provide a name, mailing address, email address, aircraft manufacturer and model name, the serial number of the aircraft. Hobbyists do not have to provide the make, model and serial number.</p>
<p><strong>48.105 Requirement to maintain current information</strong>: You have 14 days to update information.</p>
<p><strong>48.110 Registration: Persons intending to use small unmanned aircraft for purposes other than as model aircraft</strong>: The certificate is good for 3 years from the date it was issued. It can be renewed. The certificate can also expire if the aircraft is registered in a foreign country; the aircraft is destroyed or scrapped; the owner loses U.S. citizenship; 30 days have passed since the owner died; the owner loses status as a resident alien; or the corporation that registered it ceases to operate under the laws of the U.S.</p>
<p><strong>48.120 Invalid Application</strong>: If the aircraft is registered in a foreign country; the applicant is not the owner (except if the owner is under 13); the applicant is not eligible to submit the application; or the transaction was entered not in good faith, the registration is invalid.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="subpart-c">
<h2>Subpart C</h2>
<p><strong>48.205 Display and location of unique identifier</strong>: The registration number the FAA gives you must be maintained in a legible condition, must be securely affixed to the aircraft and readily accessible and visible upon inspection. You can put it inside a compartment if the compartment can be accessed without tools.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>